If Jason and I wanted to make an
investment in soccer, what's your pitch?
>> Well, I I I think it's the truly global
sport. I mean, right now we're we're in
China negotiating broadcast deals for
China. In terms of revenue, so for the
Women's World Cup, it'll be a billion in
revenue for next summer. [music] And for
the Men's World Cup, you're probably
talking upwards of 4 to 6 billion, I
would say in that range. So, yeah, I
mean, the numbers are
>> [music]
>> are big, but those are the numbers that
go back into into the sport.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back to The Deal. I'm Jason
Kelly.
>> And I'm Alex Rodriguez.
>> All right, Alex, coming up on the show,
Jill Ellis. She is the Chief Football
Officer of FIFA, meaning she's one of
the chief [music] architects of the
global game of soccer. Also, not for
nothing, she won a couple of World Cups
in 2015 and 2019 as [music] the head of
the US Women's National Team. The World
Cup, even if you wanted [music] to
escape it, you couldn't.
>> And I haven't.
I'm down in Miami. I mean, it is
everywhere, and I'm cannot wait [music]
to dive into the numbers of what FIFA
represents.
>> And all eyes are going to be what
[music] happens next in the business of
soccer. Coming up, Jill Ellis.
Jill Ellis, FIFA's Chief Football
Officer. You know, Alex, we'd love to
make this show timely. What is more
timely than talking to the Chief
Football Officer of FIFA on the eve of
the World Cup? So, let's start there.
How are you feeling about this World
Cup?
>> I mean, excited. I think the
what I've learned over time, you know,
whether either competing in them or
watching them, is there's always a lot
of country It always feels like a
three-ring circus kind of getting into
there, but once the games kick off, it's
it's magical. So, excited, obviously.
I'm from the US, so it's exciting to
have a a World Cup back here on the on
the shores of of America. So, I think
it's going to be brilliant.
>> You're feeling it down in Miami, aren't
you?
>> Oh, there's no doubt. I mean, I think
for the first time, Joe,
I was born in New York, but I've been in
Miami around 40-plus years.
And I think soccer right now could be
the number one, if not the number one
sport, the number one kind of
conversation and narrative around it. I
mean, you have Beckham, you have Messi,
you have the the championship. And
there's so many people that are so
melting pot.
And I guess my question to you,
obviously FIFA I'll be throwing the the
coin flip, flip it. I'm going to flip a
coin.
But sell me on the sport. Like if it was
an investment, obviously I'm into
women's sports with the W, I'm into
men's sports with the N N NBA team with
the Wolves.
If Jason and I wanted to make an
investment in soccer, what's your pitch?
>> Well, I I think it's the truly global
sport. I mean, you always hear obviously
you've got American football, baseball,
but it it's played everywhere. So, I
think you've got an immediate global
audience. There's not a bigger audience
for it than obviously the World Cup. I
mean, even the Women's World Cup, 2
billion viewers in '23. So, you've got
probably the most global sport out
there. Um I think it's in the US, it's
trending. I mean, I think it's becoming
probably the largest participation sport
amongst youth. So, you've now got a
whole generation of people playing it.
Um you've got established professional
leagues here. I mean, 30 plus teams in
the MLS, obviously the women's league.
So, it's it's not just emerging anymore.
It's very much here. There's a baked-in
fan base. You've got an educated fan
base now. Um you've had success, you
know, obviously the women's team's had a
lot of success on the global stage. I
listen, I think it's it's a can't-miss
sport and I think people that are
engaging in sport, and especially in
America where we make it something that
is a can't-miss. It's such an exciting
sport. I mean, there's nothing like the
last 5 minutes of a of a of a soccer
game.
>> You mentioned, Jill, the three-ring
circus of it all. And there are I mean,
it may be a 12-ring circus at this point
in this lead-up. We're talking to you
just, you know, a few weeks before it
all um kicks off.
And everybody's talking about something.
I recently, you know, talked with your
colleague Gianni Infantino about ticket
prices. People are worried about visas.
People are worried about who's going to
play. Like, what from your job
perspective, like what do you worry
about in this, you know, sort of like
tense lead up to the to the matches
actually getting played?
>> I mean, I certainly think it's, you
know, you you want to have full
stadiums. Um safety is always something
when you think about massive global
events. So, you want to make sure that
those things are in place. Um but
ultimately, it's getting the teams here,
getting the stars here. Once you know,
again, we had the Club World Cup last
summer and there was a lot of debate and
you know, controversy about is this the
right event? As soon as the matches kick
off, the fans are in the stands, people
gravitate towards that and it and it
plays out. And I think that's you know,
I think as a as a former coach as well,
you also know there's always the
anticipation for that first whistle,
that first moment. And then once it
happens, I think people settle into it.
But, you know, I think one of the things
that people have talked about about this
World Cup is we now got 48 teams. It's
the largest World Cup ever.
It's going to be, you know, countries
debutants here. It'll be, you know, are
the games going to be competitive? And I
think that's going back to my early
comment about this sport being truly
global is yes, I think on any given day
you're going to see, you know, one of
the minnows beat the giants. And that's
kind of what the exciting thing about
this sport is you've got such a Well,
the whole world really participating.
>> Give us an idea of some of the numbers
as far as how many people around the
world would watch these events, like the
last two championship games, for
example. And what kind of revenue would
you say it generates?
>> Well, I think that the last World Cup,
and obviously that was Qatar, I think it
was 5 billion globally. The Women's
World Cup, 2 billion.
>> 5 billion?
>> Yep.
>> 5 billion people.
>> Yep. The Women's World Cup in '23 was 2
billion. We're projecting, you know, 2.5
to 3 billion. I mean, you know, it's
broadcasting me right now. We're we're
in China negotiating broadcast deals for
China. Um you know, the whole world
really tunes in. In terms of revenue, so
for the Women's World Cup, um we're
projecting this will be a $500 million
increase to it'll be a billion in
revenue for next summer in 2027.
And for the Men's World Cup, you're
probably talking upwards of 4 to 6
billion, I would say in that range. So,
yeah, I mean the numbers are
a big, but it's those are the numbers
that go back into into the sport. You
know, for example, we give FIFA gives
every participating country, that's 211,
they get FIFA forward money. So, the
money gets redistributed back into the
investment of the sport.
>> Jason, I have a question for you. I
mean, you're the business person expert
here.
When you hear Jill say numbers like a
billion for the women, 5 billion, what
is the comp that you've seen?
>> There is no comp.
>> I mean, that's the thing is there is no
comp. And and one of the interesting
things, Jill, that you know, as I've dug
into this and and spending time with
Johnny on this on this topic is
you know, there is so much anticipation
around this World Cup in North America
because of the scale of it. And you
know, one of the things and and I would
love to talk a little bit about
accessibility and and ticket prices
because I asked Johnny this question
and he gave me a statistic, which you
got to keep me honest here, Jill, when I
repeat it, which is you'll this is going
to blow your mind. The previous two
World Cups, you know, they have you
know, people request tickets and there
were 50 million ticket requests for the
last two combined.
>> Oh my gosh. [laughter]
>> For this one World Cup, this one that's
coming up, 500 million ticket requests.
So, 10x the last two. So, I guess my
question to you, Jill, on that is with
that sort of demand, how do you manage
the supply? Like, what are the what are
the conversations you guys have inside
of FIFA because you have to manage the
economics completely differently with
that sort of demand?
>> Well, you know, in fairness, there's a
whole team that manages this event,
right? So, um have a whole team behind
it, but
I mean, I think the, you know, the
dynamic ticket pricing is is very real.
Um you know, I think that's the other
thing. FIFA's been taking a lot of hits
about the ticket pricing, but the
reality is the demand is so big um that,
you know, you can't control all of the
resale and all these types of types of
things, but, you know, internally it's
I mean, they have to keep a lot back,
obviously, for partners. How do you eke
it out? How do you make sure that the
demand is is there? I mean, we still got
certain games that I think we're we're
trying to to push and to sell. Um but
they yeah, I mean, they have a whole a
whole branch of of ticketing experts
that go in there and look at everything.
I mean, even when you map out where you
want teams to play, right? Who do you
want in what venue? I mean, we're doing
this currently right now with with the
Women's World Cup. We haven't released
the schedule because we're looking at
the size of the stadiums, where do you
want teams playing to maximize revenue
and um
so yeah, this strategy happens years in
advance, for sure.
>> That sort of demand, I mean, can you I
I'm I'm turning this back on you. I
mean, can you fathom that sort of
demand? I mean, you have a couple pretty
popular teams, but like that level is I
mean, it's it's hard to fathom.
>> I wish I I can only dream.
>> Well, and we're getting hit for, you
know, ticket prices, but you're you're
right. I mean, the demand is so high
that it drives the market.
>> And so with that sort of demand, Jill,
you know, one of the things that comes
to mind for me is
how do you factor that in on the on the
sporting side, whether it is thinking
about the matchups, thinking about which
teams and which countries are are going
to be the dominant storylines? How do
you maximize that as a business? How do
you How do you lean into it and on the
sporting side?
>> Well, it's certainly I mean, you know,
we're playing in massive stadiums, but
if you look next summer in Brazil,
there's 60, 70,000 seat stadiums. I
mean, which for the women's game is is
massive and it's a heavy lift. So, it's
it's exactly that. It's who do you want
playing where?
Um obviously, there's not ultimate
control because it's a draw and it's a
random draw. But in terms of where teams
play,
making sure that you know a South
Korea's playing in LA, you know, they
got an amazing player there in Son. And
so making sure they're on the West
Coast. And so it's looking at location,
population, you know, and and obviously
general interest. I mean, you know a
team. So for example, last summer it
didn't matter where you put Real Madrid.
Real Madrid will will sell out
>> In the Club World Cup.
>> Club World anywhere.
And there's certain teams. I mean,
Colombia has a phenomenal Every time you
see the US play Colombia in in in the US
on the men's side, it's it's full of
yellow jerseys.
Obviously, Mexico will play in Mexico.
But there's I mean, there's just an
immense amount especially because we're
such a melting pot. I mean, there's
going to be large large following that
will travel, you know. And that's the
other thing you think about. What What
fans will travel, you know. The Scottish
fans will come. They'll travel. I mean,
there's just some amazing fan bases.
>> Jason, we have crazy fans in America.
Now, in Miami, I'm really feeling it.
There's a very European feeling in
Miami. Now,
they start pouring in at 6:00, 7:00 in
the morning drinking.
So I guess my question is,
who are some of the craziest, most rabid
fan bases if you had to say a few?
>> Listen, the the Latin American market is
phenomenal. I mean, you know, Argentina
bring bring amazing fans. Colombia the
same. I mean, I think those fans I mean,
they don't stop the entire game. Moving
their arms, singing. I mean, it's it's
non-stop. And that's what's going to be
really cool for I think the US fans to
experience is you know, we're kind of
like a golf clapping kind of fan base
compared to compared [laughter] to the
rest of the world who are just, you
know, rabid for 90 minutes.
But yeah, I mean, the the South American
fans are brilliant. I mean, listen, my
mom was Scottish. God bless her. The
those fans are they're crazy. They will
be probably starting at 6:00 a.m.
But you know, and then you actually add
that up because tailgating's not a thing
in Europe or the rest of the world. You
now add that you're going to open up the
potentially the the stadium earlier. I
mean, I think it's it's going to be be
They have marches to stadiums. That's
really big things in in in this this
world.
>> Well, and that entertainment piece, I
think you'll appreciate this, Alex. It
is so fascinating to me because it it
and and Jill, again, keep me honest
here, like it does feel like
FIFA as a whole
is leaning very much into the sort of
entertainment aspect of sports. I mean,
I think about what you guys do in in
Minnesota. I mean, that's
just kind of table stakes, but but
soccer it feels like is learning a lot
about how to build around the match. Is
that fair, Jill?
>> Yeah, I mean, listen, we we have offices
in Miami now and I you know, in in in
fairness, Johnny's spent a lot of time
now going to American sports. We were we
went to an Orlando basketball game, you
know, the idea of the players coming out
one by one, being introduced. We did
that last year in the Club World Cup.
So, there's a lot of there's a lot of
learnings just that sport as
entertainment,
um is, you know, I think it's very real.
I mean, you know, last year we were
walking around stadiums and just seeing
the amount of premium hospitality, you
don't see that in Europe. You don't see
that in South America in terms of just
space. So, I think, you know, we're
learning a lot um
you know, hydration breaks that you can
actually commercialize now. I mean,
there's all kinds of different things um
you know, one of the things he loved was
the the fitness cam, the dance cam. I
mean, these are things that in Europe,
they're very traditional because the
game is the focal point and nobody gets
distracted by anything else. Whereas, I
think in America, we're used to having a
show around the show kind of thing.
>> Also, I can just imagine, Jill, the the
social impact of social media,
um the connectivity around the world is
just massive, those numbers. But, Jason,
I'm also wondering the economic impact
to a city like New York. Yeah. Uh those
numbers have to be bonkers and I'm
assuming, Jill, that those fan base we
just talked about travel very
impacts, right?
>> Yep.
>> And they travel well.
>> Yeah, I mean, I and I Jason, I don't
know if you want to speak to that, but
>> No, I mean, I I think it it it's very
true. I mean, I think this is one of the
big I I I dare say, like this is one of
the big question marks around this World
Cup is, you know, we got a little bit of
a preview of it to your point from the
Club World Cup. Um, some good, some bad,
you know, in terms of like access to the
stadiums and you know, can people get
there? Can they travel there? You know,
there's been a lot of talk about how
much it's going to cost to get to
MetLife. I mean, these are these are the
kinks that definitely are being worked
out that probably, I mean, certainly in
the last World Cup in in Cutter, you
know, you and I were in Doha together
and and and actually spent some time
talking about the sort of these mega
events. Everything was very very
contained. You could go to multiple
matches in a day in different stadia.
Here it's much more spread out. Um, I I
think these are these are big questions
that we actually won't know until the
matches really get underway, right?
>> Correct. Yeah, I mean, I I think it's,
you know, again, I think some some
events are still selling how much fans
will travel. I mean, obviously, you
know, visas issues coming into the
country. I think, you know, we're trying
to mitigate those as much as possible,
but, you know, sometimes people's
hesitation, I mean, we saw it last year.
Concacaf hosted their tournament and,
you know, at the time people were
uncertain about going to the stadiums,
but, you know, I think the Club World
Cup showed last year that, you know,
when you get there, it's it is a great
event. It's a safe event.
Um, but I mean, there's nothing quite
like coming and seeing
you know, you experienced it with the
Baseball World Cup. Countries that
national pride, there really isn't
anything quite like it.
>> Yeah, it's almost like 10 to 1 to a
regular game or even a playoff game
because,
for example, in Miami, it had a very
much of a European soccer feel where
there was like concerts going on 5-6
hours before the game and people were
chanting and they had their flags and it
is just a very patriotic like theme that
is it's hard it's hard to um, describe
unless you're there.
>> Yep.
>> Uh, so it it's interesting in in talking
to you, Joel, even for for the past
little bit
about how fluidly
you move in your job and obviously based
on your experience between the men's
game and the women's game. It is not at
all um,
hyperbole to say you've been a chief
architect of the women's game globally
and and certainly in this country.
Where are we in that journey? You know,
I mean, I know we're all very focused on
the World Cup,
the men's World Cup this summer,
but there'll be one next summer for the
women. How would you describe the state
of the women's game?
>> I mean, I think it's, you know, the
signals are out there, right? We're
seeing attendances go up. I mean, I
think the Denver
NWSL team it was 62,000, 63,000. So,
you're seeing a lot of these amazing
signals.
You know, the women's World Cup next
year. And so, yes, I mean, I straddle
both, but but obviously have one eye on
next summer as well because, you know,
this will be the first, I mean, it was
500 million, I think, they made off of
the last one. Now, we're looking at
billion and all 100% of that money will
be reinvested in the women's football,
which is huge. But, we're also seeing
the ecosystem grow. We're seeing now
club championships for global club
championships for women like we have on
the men's side. We're seeing
professional leagues
become more stable, become more, you
know, in terms of attendance,
investment. So, I, you know, I think,
listen, I
even internally in FIFA, it used to be
that everything and and this was true
and I think in a lot of sports, you sell
the men's game, the women's game was an
add-on. You sell this, it was an add-on.
Now, we're unbundling rights. We've just
got the most
the highest media deal ever for next
summer's World Cup. Netflix is paying
for a one-month tournament, which is
incredible numbers. So, we're suddenly
seeing this unbundling, un-packaging
because I think it can stand alone.
>> Yeah. And and so, to that point, you
know, I've followed the NWSL
very closely for for a number of years
now. And, you know,
it was not that long ago,
and you remember it well, I'm sure, that
this was a league that was in
existential crisis, you know? The Yates
report 2022 comes out. You and a lot of
other people were, you know,
in that report and there was a concern
that the league wouldn't go on. What's
changed? Like what what what has
happened in those intervening years that
gives you confidence that women's soccer
and especially women's soccer in this
country is on the right track?
>> Well, I think it's, you know, it's
stability. I mean, we're we're we're in
our third iteration of a women's
professional league. So, the first two
failed. So, this one has now been, I
think we're in year 13, perhaps. Um
you're seeing the growth of it in in
terms of teams added. Uh you know, we
went from 12, now we're at 16. So,
you're just seeing all of the all of the
numbers go up in that. But, I think it's
just it's the professionalization of the
game, I think, at its core. I mean, if
you put the players in the middle of it,
it was part-time contracts. It was
paying for their own luggage to get on
planes. It was things that just, you
know, shouldn't really happen in
professional sports. Now, you're seeing
legitimate minimum standards imposed.
You're seeing um you know, facilities
being specifically built now for women's
teams. So, there's just a lot more
stability. I think there's a lot more
attention on it. There's a lot more um
a regulation of the sport as well in
terms of, you know, expectations and and
like I said, minimum standards. So, I
think all of those things attribute to
it.
>> I can tell you, Jill, when you were
speaking, I was like, wait a minute. Is
she speaking about the WNBA? It was
exactly the same playbook and the same
traction. But, I was recently at um the
WNBA draft
>> Yeah.
>> and we had the second pick. And I had an
opportunity to speak to a lot of the
young women and I said to a few of them,
I said, "Are you excited? Is your family
happy?" She goes, "Heck yeah. Uh I'm a
millionaire. I'm going to be a
millionaire." And they said it was such
pride and they deserve it. And I do
think that the economic growth and the
compensation is going to recruit other
young women to say, "Why can't I also
play in the WNBA? I want to be a a
millionaire."
>> What's interesting is and I and I don't
know if this is the same, but in women's
soccer women's football, for example, as
the sport is growing and the ecosystem
is growing and the players for sure
getting more. We're actually seeing less
women
in leadership in in on coaching on the
sidelines. So, as it becomes more
economically viable, you're now seeing a
lot of men going into, you know, for
example, coaching. We only have I think
three
head coaches that are female in the NWSL
in the women's professional league in
England. I think it's two to three. So,
we also have to make sure we're
investing not just in the players, but
the pathway for owners, for leadership,
for GMs, for these other roles in
women's sports. I think this is is a
part of that.
>> Isn't one of the changes that you made
that every team must have at least one
female head coach or or coach?
>> An assistant or head coach. Yeah, I
mean, and and the reality is you hope
these things happen organically, but
they haven't. I mean, listen, the US um
Title IX was a was a game-changer for us
in terms of access and um opportunity,
but we're seeing less and less women on
the sidelines. Um and I think, you know,
this was a passion for Gianni. He I
mean, he was like, I want every head
coach to be female. I'm like, we're not
quite there yet. We've got to make sure
that these these coaches are prepared,
that they have, you know, experience,
that they have uh education through
coaching licenses. So, it's not just
creating the the regulation, it's
creating the pathway to the regulation.
>> I read a a quote of yours um about your
current job that that you said you
didn't come into this job to and and
again, keep me honest here, to protect
comfort. And and you you're you're a
straight talker. Um
What is What is some straight talk that
you've given to your colleagues at FIFA
and to Gianni about growing the women's
game and what FIFA's role can be in
ensuring that, you know, these in in
investment terms, these gains are
consolidated.
>> Well, yeah, I mean, yes, and I yes,
Gianni appreciates the uh the straight
talk. I mean, I just gave a a speech to
Congress and basically to the 211
presidents of the federations, just sort
of said to them, like, if you don't if
you don't invest in women's football,
you're missing out. Like, this
your countries care about winning. It's
not just a matter it's a gender thing.
It's about winning. So, um you know,
provoking and encouraging people to
invest because, you know, and I said in
the speech, it's not an obligation. It
It shouldn't be an obligation. It should
be something you look at as a viable
economic decision as you move forward.
Um but yeah, I mean, just conversations,
you know, looking at how we look at the
the how how media rights are
are framed. Um you know, pushing Yes,
we've got a great deal with America, but
yes, guess what? The rest of the world
should also be paying. So, it's it's
everything from media rights deals to
meeting with our CMO Romy and, you know,
pushing into sort of challenging him to
sort of say, "Hey, listen, this is
packaged. How many standalone do we have
for the Women's World Cup?" So,
>> Interesting.
>> a lot of different conversations around
that, but ultimately, it's like, what
are we doing? I mean, like, the Club
World Cup for women, it's it's now a
real thing. The first iteration will be
in 2028.
It's important that it's a high
standard, and I've said to them, we've
got to have it in an in a region,
hopefully it'll be here in the US, that
we can commercialize it, that we can
really give it what it deserves in terms
of
access around the world, viewership.
>> All right, we're going to move to our
rapid fire. Pretty easy. We'll bounce it
back and forth. I'll start and then you
pick up. You ready?
>> I'm ready.
>> All right. Favorite World Cup memory as
a coach?
>> Uh France 2019, quarterfinals.
>> Favorite World Cup memory as a fan?
>> Uh [music] Qatar, last World Cup final.
Amazing. France, Argentina. Classic.
>> That was a hell of a match. Uh storyline
you're most excited about going into
this World Cup?
>> I just [music]
the debutantes, the new teams. I think
it's exciting.
>> One change
to the World Cup you would make
tomorrow?
>> I would put 500 tickets aside for kids.
>> Mhm.
>> Just for kids to come.
>> All right, that's a good one. Underrated
host city for 2026?
>> Ooh, God, my wife's from Kansas City, so
I can't say that. Um
I don't think there is one. I think
there's I think these cities are going
to be amazing.
>> Favorite player of all time. [music]
>> Oof, I'm Maradona. Male player,
Maradona.
>> And women?
>> Women's player, I would probably go with
Marta.
>> Team you'd like to see win a
championship more than any.
>> My My team since I was seven was Man
United.
>> Ah.
>> So, I go We need to get back on top.
>> Yeah.
>> Um World Cup? Come on, I want to see the
US win a World Cup, men's World Cup.
>> Jill Ellis, thank you so much. This was
really fun.
>> Thank you so much, guys. Appreciate you.
Thank you.
>> [music]
[music]